viii Introduction.

never to have felt any delicacy about asking ior ζ
accepting what he considered desirable. Pliny
him money for his joumey to Spain, in acknole

ment ol some complimentary verses From s,
Domina Marcella, whom some have taken for his wit
but who was probably only an enthusiastic admirer ι
his writings, he received the little estate in Spah
where he spent his last years making up the sleep l
had lost at Rome.

It is doubtful whether he ever married, but fro]
Titus, and again from Domitian, he received the ir
trium liberorum, which does not imply that he had ar
children, or even awife. By holding the office oi tr

. bune he attained equestrian rank.

[J Martial evidently “knew everybody.’' Those ol h

¹ acquaintances who most interest us are the contemp«

, rary authorS, whose names are well represented in tl

, epigrams. Two are conspicuous by their abseno

¹ Tacitus and Statius. With the latter Martial is su
pected ol having been on no very good terms. Tw

men more uncongenial could hardly be imagined, an.
it is not improbable that some allusions to a long
winded epic poet were intended for Statius

Martial's extant works are about 1550 epigrams ir
fifteen books The first book, commonly called ir
modern times liber Spectaculorum, was published i1
80 nn. in connection with the opening oi the grea
Flavian amphitheatre‚ the Colosseum. Two others
assignable to 84 and 85 A.D., entitled respectivel]
Xeniu and Apophoreta, consist oi epigrams in the ori
ginal sense oi the word, being distichs intended to bt

Λ

 

